RÉSUMÉ: MANDAR TAUSALKAR
PERSONAL DETAILS
Name: Mr. Mandar Tausalkar
Address: 204/9 Morton Avenue, Carnegie, VIC 3163
Phone: 0415 330 660
Email: mandar181@gmail.com
PROFILE
Results-oriented analyst, developer and database professional with a focus on delivering high quality solutions in high traffic environments.
Enthusiastic about new ideas, products and services. Proven team work and leadership ability. Capable of keeping a focus on the
tasks and deadlines at hand. Solves immediate crises with solutions that will fit for the long-term.
KEY PROFESSIONAL ATTRIBUTES
12+ years of professional experience working in the IT, Hospitality & Education
industries.
Hands-on experience with all aspects of building large-scale, high-availability
web and client applications, online commerce, database administration, open source
software, and quality assurance.
Practical knowledge of starting, managing and operating a hospitality business. Co-
owned and managed a successful Melbourne restaurant for 3+ years.
Experience with Point-of-Sale Solutions to hospitality and other retail businesses. 2+
years experience as a freelance consultant/developer delivering affordable Point-of-
Sale Systems to hospitality and other retail businesses.
Stays up to date with best practices.
QUALIFICATIONS
Master of Business Systems: Monash University 2002
Bachelor of Commerce: University of Mumbai, India 2000
Diploma in Computer Programming (C C++): SSI Academy, India 2000


EMPLOYMENT HISTORY


SYSTEMS / WEB CO-ORDINATOR Sep 2008 to Present
24 Hour News P/L, Melbourne

Technical Environment:
Ongoing development and management of several internet and intranet sites 
based on PHP, and mySQL; in addition to planning, design and development of
new web-sites, email campaigns and mini-sites.


This also includes business
process analysis, business process mapping, application design and
development, desktop publishing, training and technical consultation.

Key Accountabilities:
Responsible for all aspects of the project cycle from receiving project briefs and
delivering proposals, to project planning, liaison with third party contractors
and service providers, testing, QA and client support.

Design, development and implementation of several database driven internet and intranet sites

(PHP  MySQL Linux framework (Magento, GetSimple,
etc.).

Developing SQL scripts for data extraction and reporting across multiple business units.

Documenting changes to business processes in liaison with end-users and customers and implementing required changes to database logical and physical design.

Supervision of the web development and graphics production team including staff roster, task assignment, training and management reporting.

Remote administering Apache web servers, MySQL databases, mail, DNS and FTP servers.



Key Projects:
Content managed web site development :
- Documenting business processes and data flows at a business unit level to
produce functional specification and technical design documentation for
database based content managed web site development.
- Implementing key e-commerce systems including shopping cart applications
in Maganto and custom PHP, MySQL, integrating payment gateways such as
PayPal and One Gold World.
- Managing the expectations of both internal and external customers, manage
ongoing client relationships and establish, develop and maintain new client
relationships.
- Working towards hosting of web services and content in liaison with thirdparty
providers and resellers, negotiating web hosting and content delivery
network contracts.
- Examples of web sites developed include seniorshousingcanada.com
wiseowlonline.com (Magento based).


LEAD DEVELOPER (Casual) January 2007 to present
InfoMantra Business Systems, Melbourne, Victoria
Technical Environment:
Lead the development web applications and e-commerce web sites within a
MySQL, PHP, CSS, jQuery, HTML framework. Perform browser testing, security
audits, and stress tests. Execute benchmark tests and perform database
optimization.
Key Accountabilities:
Architecting content management systems in PHP and MySQL that has been in
daily use for over 2 years and drive content to web sites, and third-party
systems.
Developing applications and development frameworks using OO PHP.
Administering MySQL databases.
Developing web pages and templates using W3C web standards (XHTML and
CSS), implementing AJAX search forms and auto-complete fields for intranet
applications.
Examples of web sites developed and supported include misht.com.au
(Magento based). vedhicelements.com.au (Magento based),
home2own.com.au

WEB / DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Nov 2006 to Sep 2008
BizNews Network P/L, Melbourne
Technical Environment:
Migration of company websites and customer databases from existing HTML,
Javascript and M.S. Access to more standards compliant and updated MySQL,
PHP, CSS based environment. Ongoing development of new websites (front end
and back end). Planning, design and optimisation of MySQL databases for email
marketing campaigns to be compliant with Australian SPAM regulations.
Key Accountabilities:
Identifying, evaluating and recommending the most suitable content
management platforms for delivering content to subscribers.
Design, development, testing and implementation of MySQL databases.
Plan, implement and oversee data migration from M.S. Access to MySQL.

Documenting changes to business processes, user training and ongoing maintenance of websites and databases.

Planning, development, implementation and maintenance of database driven web sites.


Planning, design and development of custom content management 

User training for using content management back end system.

Liaising with third-party providers for securing web hosting services, managed servers and graphic design contracts.

Develop and implement policies and procedures for maintaining accuracy of data used in email marketing campaigns.

Ensure MySQL databases and email marketing campaigns comply with Australian SPAM regulations (CAN-SPAM Act 2002).

Develop, implement and review polices and procedures for handling and resolution of spam complaints.



IT Admin Nov 2003 to May 2006
Worldwide Resources P/L, Melbourne

Key Technologies
MS Access, MySQL, MS Excel, HTML, Java Script, CSS

Responsibilities:
Part of a team looking after day to day maintenance of the company’s web sites and databases
Generating management reports from back end database systems
Managing a team of data entry operators




Sessional Lecturer June 2003 to Oct 2003
Monash College, Melbourne

Key Responsibilities:
Lecturing and tutoring one of the core first year units, Computer Modelling for Business Decisions in the diploma of Information Technology course at Monash
College.
The unit was an introduction to spreadsheet modelling, simulation, project management, risk analysis and financial modelling.
